README.md, before:

# _Hair Salon_

#### _App created for Epicodus Independent Project, C-Sharp - Week Three. Practice using SQL Database Basics. June 9, 2017_

#### By _**Alyssa Moody**_

## Description

_A simple app that allows salon employees to add/view/delete stylists and add/view/edit/delete clients from the database._

## Program Specifications

| Description  | Input Example | Output Example |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 1. The program allows employees to add a new stylist to the database.  | New Stylist Name: "Emmylou Earnest" Stylist specialty: "Men's cuts and short hair styles."  | "Success! You have added a new stylist."  |
| 2. The program allows users to view all stylists.  | --   | "Here is a list of all stylists."  |
| 3. The program allows employees to add a new client to a stylist in the database.  | New Client Name: "Beau Blue" Client details: "None."  | "Success! You have added a new client."  |
| 4. The program allows users to click on each stylist and view their details and which clients belong to that stylist.  | --   | "Stylist: Betty Jean, Specialty: Long hair, ombre coloring." "Her Clients: Darla Darling, Minnie Moo."  |
| 5. The program allows users to click on each client and see details about that client.  | --   | "Client: Darla Darling. Her Stylist: Betty Jean. Details: On her last visit (1/2/2013), we trimmed her hair and touched up her roots with dark drown."  |
| 6. The program allows employees to update an existing client's name and/or details.  | Client's Name (if changed): "" Client details: "On last visit, Minnie went from long hair to a short bob with bangs."  | "Success!"  |
| 7. The program allows employees to delete an existing client from the database.  | "Delete?"  | "Success!"  |
| 8. The program allows employees to delete an existing stylist from the database.  | "Delete?"  | "Success!"  |

## Setup/Installation Requirements

_Runs on the .Net Framework._

_Install Visual Studio 2015. https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=532606 ._

_Install ASP.Net 5. This will give you access to the .NET Framework. https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=627627 ._

_Restart PowerShell. While located in your machine's Home directory, enter the command > dnvm upgrade._

_Requires Nancy Web Framework located at: http://nancyfx.org/. You can also do this via Windows PowerShell with the command > **Install-Package Nancy**_

_**From GitHub: Download or clone project repository onto desktop from GitHub.**_

_In SQLCMD run: > CREATE DATABASE hair_salon; > GO > USE hair_salon; > GO_

_In your preferred database management system (I use SSMS) and open the sqlscripts.sql file from the project folder. Run the execute command on the file. That should connect the database to the project tables._

_In PowerShell, cd into the project folder. Enter the command > **dnu restore**_

_Enter the command > **dnx kestrel**_

_In your preferred browser, navigate to http://localhost:5004/ and you should see the application._

## Known Bugs

_No known bugs._

## Support and contact details

_If you run into any issues or have questions, ideas or concerns, please contact Alyssa Moody at alyssanicholemoody@gmail.com_

## Technologies Used

_**Languages:** HTML, CSS, C#, SQL._

_**Frameworks:** Nancy, .Net._

_**Testing:** xUnit._

### License

*MIT license Agreement*

Copyright (c) 2017 **_Alyssa Moody_**

Commit message:

Edit README instructions for database creation. Add test database sql file and README instructions.

README.md, after:

# _Hair Salon_

#### _App created for Epicodus Independent Project, C-Sharp - Week Three. Practice using SQL Database Basics. June 9, 2017_

#### By _**Alyssa Moody**_

## Description

_A simple app that allows salon employees to add/view/delete stylists and add/view/edit/delete clients from the database._

## Program Specifications

| Description  | Input Example | Output Example |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 1. The program allows employees to add a new stylist to the database.  | New Stylist Name: "Emmylou Earnest" Stylist specialty: "Men's cuts and short hair styles."  | "Success! You have added a new stylist."  |
| 2. The program allows users to view all stylists.  | --   | "Here is a list of all stylists."  |
| 3. The program allows employees to add a new client to a stylist in the database.  | New Client Name: "Beau Blue" Client details: "None."  | "Success! You have added a new client."  |
| 4. The program allows users to click on each stylist and view their details and which clients belong to that stylist.  | --   | "Stylist: Betty Jean, Specialty: Long hair, ombre coloring." "Her Clients: Darla Darling, Minnie Moo."  |
| 5. The program allows users to click on each client and see details about that client.  | --   | "Client: Darla Darling. Her Stylist: Betty Jean. Details: On her last visit (1/2/2013), we trimmed her hair and touched up her roots with dark drown."  |
| 6. The program allows employees to update an existing client's name and/or details.  | Client's Name (if changed): "" Client details: "On last visit, Minnie went from long hair to a short bob with bangs."  | "Success!"  |
| 7. The program allows employees to delete an existing client from the database.  | "Delete?"  | "Success!"  |
| 8. The program allows employees to delete an existing stylist from the database.  | "Delete?"  | "Success!"  |

## Setup/Installation Requirements

_Runs on the .Net Framework._

_Install Visual Studio 2015. https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=532606 ._

_Install ASP.Net 5. This will give you access to the .NET Framework. https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=627627 ._

_Restart PowerShell. While located in your machine's Home directory, enter the command > dnvm upgrade._

_Requires Nancy Web Framework located at: http://nancyfx.org/. You can also do this via Windows PowerShell with the command > **Install-Package Nancy**_

_**From GitHub: Download or clone project repository onto desktop from GitHub.**_

_In SQLCMD run: > CREATE DATABASE hair_salon; > GO > USE hair_salon; > GO_

_In your preferred database management system (I use SSMS), open the band_tracker.sql file from the project folder. Run the execute command on the file. If this does not work, run the following command in SQLCMD:

CREATE DATABASE hair_salon; GO USE hair_salon; GO CREATE TABLE clients (id INT IDENTITY(1,1), client_name VARCHAR(100), details VARCHAR(255), stylist_id INT); GO CREATE TABLE stylists (id INT IDENTITY(1,1), stylist_name VARCHAR(100), specialty VARCHAR(255)); GO_

_To create test database, in your preferred database management system (I use SSMS) open the hair_salon_test.sql file from the project folder. Run the execute command on the file. If this does not work, back up and restore the database as a test database in your preferred database management system.

_In PowerShell, cd into the project folder. Enter the command > **dnu restore**_

_Enter the command > **dnx kestrel**_

_In your preferred browser, navigate to http://localhost:5004/ and you should see the application._

## Known Bugs

_No known bugs._

## Support and contact details

_If you run into any issues or have questions, ideas or concerns, please contact Alyssa Moody at alyssanicholemoody@gmail.com_

## Technologies Used

_**Languages:** HTML, CSS, C#, SQL._

_**Frameworks:** Nancy, .Net._

_**Testing:** xUnit._

### License

*MIT license Agreement*

Copyright (c) 2017 **_Alyssa Moody_**
